# An-Enhanced-Multi-Modal-Biometric-Authentication2
In todays networked world the requirement for security frameworks are becoming tighter because of an increase in violations like PC hacking, unlawful access of ATM, cellphone and security ruptures in government agencies, and what's more, private structures. Lawbreakers exploit basic imperfections in the traditional security frameworks. For these security issues, biometric acknowledgment framework is utilized for identifying individuals using distinguishable and exclusive proof. Biometrics of an individual cant be hacked effortlessly as opposed to a password. A multimodal framework can consolidate any number of free biometrics and make any biometric system a lot stronger than using only one biometric as user’s confirmation device. The combination of numerous biometrics reduces the framework mistake rate as well. Combination strategies incorporate a strategy of converging biometric modalities consecutively until the point that an adequate match is reached. This paper proposes a block diagram of multimodal biometrics; likewise, discusses the utilization of biometric frameworks and their leeway over the unimodal biometric framework and how a combination of different biometrics can substantially decrease the framework’s error rate. Generally, passwords (information-based security) and ID cards (token-based security) are a common and most used methods of confirming access to different applications. However, these systems are not completely secure as it can be breached when a secret key is revealed to an unapproved client or identification is pilfered by a fraudster. Biometrics authentication systems refer to the programmed identification (or confirmation) of an individual (or an asserted personality) by utilizing certain physiological or behavioral attributes of that individual. Biometric frameworks make utilization of fingerprints, geometry of hands, iris, retina, facial features, hand vein structure, mark, facial thermograms or even voiceprint to confirm a person's identity [1]. These are superior in the sense that these features can’t be easily shared, stolen or breached like a conventional security strategy. Biometrics frameworks have been categorized into two classes which are: unimodal and multimodal biometrics framework [2]. The basic contrast between the two is that a Unimodal framework works with just a single characteristic or feature while a multimodal framework will employ multiple physical features, for example, a combination of a unique mark in the face, retina and voice. The focus of this research is particularly on multimodal biometrics arrangement of verification since it assures critical guarantee as far as security. Multi-biometrics aims to bring down one or more of the following: False Accept Rate (FAR), False Reject Rate (FRR) and Failure to Enroll Rate (FTE) [3]. The proposed android application has a simple user interface which has two enrolment buttons for face enrolment and fingerprint enrolment, once the enrolment of these two biometric modalities is done, fusion of the characteristics is carried out in the background by pre mapping fusion also known as feature level extraction. The feature fusion score is stored in the database and matched with the score and then proceed if there is a match. The match triggers another system which sends in the OTP which is 4-digit password combination sent to the mobile. Once OTP is received the system triggers another pop up with voice verification mechanism, the OTP when read over that interface matches user’s voice already stored in a database while the enrolment phase and when the voice and OTP match the final outcome is achieved. The framework uses face and iris scan, which often works better to address the noise issue especially prone to finger scanning. The system is now ready for use .
